Add Ratelimit Task using Envoy (#8537)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limit/index.md

---
title: Enabling Rate Limits using Envoy
description: This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a service.
weight: 10
keywords: [policies,quotas]

> aliases:
>     - /docs/tasks/rate-limit.html

Reviewer: This is a new file, not a moved one, so it has no aliases.
```suggestion
```

owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: n/a
---

This task shows you how to use Envoy's native rate limiting in Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a
service.

## Before you begin

1. Setup Istio in a Kubernetes cluster by following the instructions in the
   [Installation Guide](/docs/setup/getting-started/).

1. Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

    The Bookinfo sample deploys 3 versions of the `reviews` service:

    * Version v1 doesn’t call the `ratings` service.
    * Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
    * Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

    You need to set a default route to one of the versions. Otherwise, when you send requests to the `reviews` service, Istio routes requests to all available versions randomly, and sometimes the output contains star ratings and sometimes it doesn't.

1. Set the default version for all services to v1.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

## Rate limits

> In this task, you configure Istio to rate limit traffic to `productpage` whenever request is routed to a specific path.

Reviewer: Do you mean: `rate limit traffic to a specific path of the `productpage` service.`?

Author: Thanks..Fixed

> Rate limit using Envoy can be achieved using either Global Rate Limiting or Local Rate Limiting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Envoy supports both Global Rate Limiting and Local Rate Limiting.
```

Reviewer 2: I would add two extra sentences explaining the difference between Global and Local, with links to the relevant Envoy docs if possible.

Author: Done. Added docs link in their specific sections

> ### Global Rate Limit

Reviewer: What is a global vs local rate limit? Global/local to what? This should be explained.

Author: Explained as pointed by Doug too

Envoy can be used to setup global rate limit for your mesh. More info on it can be found [here](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/global_rate_limiting)

> 1.  For Global Rate Limit, you need a global gRPC rate limiting service. You can either use Envoy's [reference implementation](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit) written in Go which uses a Redis backend or implement a service that implements the Envoy's defined RPC/IDL protocol.

Reviewer 2: does the gRPC service have to be global (in the sense of a global v. regional service)?

Would this be clearer if it was phrased as something like: "Global rate limiting in Envoy uses a gRPC API for requesting quota from a rate limiting service. A reference implementation of that API, written in Go with a Redis backend, is available. To provide a custom implementation, your service must provide the Envoy API."

Author: Thanks..Fixed

    In the definition of the service you also define the rate limits and the descriptor on which you want
    to rate limit on. For example, below is the configmap defining rate limit on PATH header.

    {{<text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:

>       name: ratelimit-config

Reviewer: How is this configmap related to what's described in the step: `you need a global gRPC rate limiting service` or `In the definition of the service you also define ...`?

Author: It's related to `In the definition of the service`.. made it more clear

    data:
      config.yaml: |
        domain: echo-ratelimit
        descriptors:
          - key: PATH
            value: "/productpage"
            rate_limit:
              unit: minute
              requests_per_unit: 1
          - key: PATH
            rate_limit:
              unit: minute
              requests_per_unit: 100

    {{< /text >}}

1.  Apply EnvoyFilter Patch in Istio that enables global rate limit. The below patch applies rate limiting
    on any traffic through  Istio Ingressgateway and  matches  it on the  Path header of the request.

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: This is a large amount of YAML, that warrants some explanation of what the various parts do.

Reviewer 2: We can probably split into multiple EnvoyFilters, to help with readability.

1) Define rate-limiting cluster
2) Tell ingress gateway to use the rate-limiter

Author: I have separated by different EnvoyFilters and added more descriptions for the same..PTAL

    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: EnvoyFilter
    metadata:
      name: filter-ratelimit
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      workloadSelector:
        # select by label in the same namespace
        labels:
          istio: ingressgateway
      configPatches:
        # The Envoy config you want to modify
        - applyTo: HTTP_FILTER
          match:
            context: GATEWAY
            listener:
              filterChain:
                filter:
                  name: "envoy.http_connection_manager"
                  subFilter:
                    name: "envoy.router"
          patch:
            operation: INSERT_BEFORE
            # Adds the Envoy Rate Limit Filter in HTTP filter chain.
            value:
              name: envoy.ratelimit
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.config.filter.http.rate_limit.v2.RateLimit
                # domain can be anything! Match it to the ratelimter service config

>                 domain: productpage-ratelimit

Reviewer 2: above, we used `echo-ratelimit`. should we aim to be consistent in our examples?

Author: Thanks for pointing

              load_assignment:
                cluster_name: rate_limit_cluster
                endpoints:
                - lb_endpoints:
                  - endpoint:
                      address:
                        socket_address:
                          address: ratelimit.default.svc.cluster.local
                          port_value: 8081
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: EnvoyFilter
    metadata:
      name: filter-ratelimit-svc
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      workloadSelector:
        labels:
          istio: ingressgateway
      configPatches:
        - applyTo: VIRTUAL_HOST
          match:
            context: GATEWAY
            routeConfiguration:
              vhost:
                name: "*:80"
                  route:
                    action: ANY
          patch:
            operation: MERGE
            # Applies the rate limit rules.
            value:
              rate_limits:
                - actions: # any actions in here
                  - request_headers:
                      header_name: ":path"
                      descriptor_key: "PATH"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Local Rate Limit

> Envoy supports using Local Rate Limit on connection and HTTP level. This helps applying rate limit at the instance level

Reviewer 2: I think we probably need to emphasize with more text that this limit is enforced by the proxy itself, with no communication with other services or proxies. This is implied, but I think it will help to be fully explicit here (maybe with examples) ?

Author: Done.

itself.

You can enable local rate limit by applying Envoy Filter patch as follows. Following enables 100 requests through an
 istio ingressgateway instance in 60 seconds.

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: See my previous comment.

Author: There is just one EnvoyFilter Patch here... I have added more description for it.

          patch:
            operation: INSERT_BEFORE
            value:
              name: envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/udpa.type.v1.TypedStruct
                type_url: type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.local_ratelimit.v3.LocalRateLimit
                value:
                  stat_prefix: http_local_rate_limiter
                  token_bucket:
                    max_tokens: 100
                    tokens_per_fill: 100
                    fill_interval: 60s
                  filter_enabled:
                    runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enabled
                    default_value:
                      numerator: 100
                      denominator: HUNDRED
                  filter_enforced:
                    runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enforced
                    default_value:
                      numerator: 100
                      denominator: HUNDRED
                  response_headers_to_add:
                    - append: false
                      header:
                        key: x-local-rate-limit
                        value: 'true'
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> You can also enable local rate limiting for a specific route and it can be achieved as follows:

Reviewer: Explain a little about what is different from the previous one.

Author: Done

            value:
              typed_per_filter_config:
                envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit:
                  "@type": type.googleapis.com/udpa.type.v1.TypedStruct
                  type_url: type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.local_ratelimit.v3.LocalRateLimit
                  value:
                    stat_prefix: http_local_rate_limiter
                    token_bucket:
                      max_tokens: 1
                      tokens_per_fill: 1
                      fill_interval: 600s
                    filter_enabled:
                      runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enabled
                      default_value:
                        numerator: 100
                        denominator: HUNDRED
                    filter_enforced:
                      runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enforced
                      default_value:
                        numerator: 100
                        denominator: HUNDRED
                    response_headers_to_add:
                      - append: false
                        header:
                          key: x-local-rate-limit
                          value: 'true'
    EOF

>     {{< /text >}}

Reviewer: Where are some steps that confirm that the the config is working, e.g., demonstrating the rate limiting?

Author: Added.

---
title: Enabling Rate Limits using Envoy
description: This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a service.
weight: 10
keywords: [policies,quotas]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: n/a
---

This task shows you how to use Envoy's native rate limiting in Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a
service.

## Before you begin

1. Setup Istio in a Kubernetes cluster by following the instructions in the
   [Installation Guide](/docs/setup/getting-started/).

1. Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

    The Bookinfo sample deploys 3 versions of the `reviews` service:

    * Version v1 doesn’t call the `ratings` service.
    * Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
    * Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

>     You need to set a default route to one of the versions. Otherwise, when you send requests to the `reviews` service, Istio routes requests to all available versions randomly, and sometimes the output contains star ratings and sometimes it doesn't.
> 
> 1. Set the default version for all services to v1.
> 
>     {{< text bash >}}
>     $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
>     {{< /text >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Set the default version for all services to v1 so that no ratings are returned (no stars are displayed).

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}
```

using both global and local rate limits.

### Global rate limit

Envoy can be used to [set up global rate limits](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/global_rate_limiting) for your mesh.

1. Global rate limiting in Envoy uses a gRPC API for requesting quota from a rate limiting service.
   A [reference implementation](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit) of the API, written in Go with a Redis
   backend, is used below.

   The following [configmap](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit#configuration) configures the
   reference implementation to rate limit requests to the path `/productpage` at 1 req/min and all other
   requests at 100 req/min.

>    {{<text yaml >}}

Reviewer: This code block must be indented 4 spaces (see lint error)

Author: fixed

   apiVersion: v1
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     name: ratelimit-config
   data:
     config.yaml: |
       domain: productpage-ratelimit
       descriptors:
         - key: PATH
           value: "/productpage"
           rate_limit:
             unit: minute
             requests_per_unit: 1
         - key: PATH
           rate_limit:
             unit: minute
             requests_per_unit: 100
   {{< /text >}}

1. Apply an `EnvoyFilter` to the `ingressgateway` to enable global rate limiting using Envoy's global rate limit filter.

   The first patch inserts the
   `envoy.filters.http.ratelimit` [global envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ratelimit/v3/rate_limit.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-extensions-filters-http-ratelimit-v3-ratelimit) filter into the `HTTP_FILTER` chain.
   The `rate_limit_service` field specifies the external rate limit service, `rate_limit_cluster` in this case.

   The second patch defines the `rate_limit_cluster`, which provides the endpoint location of the external rate limit service.

>    {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: This code block must be indented 4 spaces (see lint error)

Author: fixed

                   timeout: 10s
       - applyTo: CLUSTER
         match:
           cluster:
             service: ratelimit.default.svc.cluster.local
         patch:
           operation: ADD
           # Adds the rate limit service cluster for rate limit service defined in step 1.
           value:
             name: rate_limit_cluster
             type: STRICT_DNS
             connect_timeout: 10s
             lb_policy: ROUND_ROBIN
             http2_protocol_options: {}
             load_assignment:
               cluster_name: rate_limit_cluster
               endpoints:
               - lb_endpoints:
                 - endpoint:
                     address:
                        socket_address:
                         address: ratelimit.default.svc.cluster.local
                         port_value: 8081
   EOF
   {{< /text >}}

1. Apply another `EnvoyFilter` to the `ingressgateway` that defines the route configuration on which to rate limit.
   This adds [rate limit actions](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-config-route-v3-ratelimit)
   for any route from a virtual host named `*.80`.

>    {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: This code block must be indented 4 spaces (see lint error)

    
    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: EnvoyFilter
    metadata:
      name: filter-ratelimit-svc
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      workloadSelector:
        labels:
          istio: ingressgateway
      configPatches:
        - applyTo: VIRTUAL_HOST
          match:
            context: GATEWAY
            routeConfiguration:
              vhost:
                name: "*:80"
                  route:
                    action: ANY
          patch:
            operation: MERGE
            # Applies the rate limit rules.
            value:
              rate_limits:
                - actions: # any actions in here
                  - request_headers:
                      header_name: ":path"
                      descriptor_key: "PATH"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

### Local Rate Limit

Envoy supports using [Local Rate Limit](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/local_rate_limiting#arch-overview-local-rate-limit) on connection and HTTP level. This helps applying rate limit at the instance level

> itself. In this case of rate limiting, rate limiting happens at the proxy level itself and their is no call to any other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
itself. In this case of rate limiting, rate limiting happens at the proxy level itself and there is no call to any other
```

---
title: Enabling Rate Limits using Envoy
description: This task shows you how to use Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a service.
weight: 10
keywords: [policies,quotas]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers

> test: n/a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test: no
```

Reviewer: Note that a test is required for new docs but if you want, we can merge this without it and add the test in a followup PR: https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/tests/README.md#test-authoring-overview

---

This task shows you how to use Envoy's native rate limiting in Istio to dynamically limit the traffic to a
service. In this task, we will apply a global rate-limit for the `productpage` service through ingress gateway that allows
1 requests per minute across all instances of the service. Additionally, we will apply a local rate-limit for each
individual `productpage` instance that will allow 10 requests per minute. In this way, we will ensure that our `productpage`
service handles a maximum of 1 requests per minute through instance gateway, but each `productpage` instance can handle
up to 10 requests per minute allowing for any in-mesh traffic.

## Before you begin

1. Setup Istio in a Kubernetes cluster by following the instructions in the
   [Installation Guide](/docs/setup/getting-started/).

1. Deploy the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) sample application.

> 
>     The Bookinfo sample deploys 3 versions of the `reviews` service:
> 
>     * Version v1 doesn’t call the `ratings` service.
>     * Version v2 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 black stars.
>     * Version v3 calls the `ratings` service, and displays each rating as 1 to 5 red stars.

Reviewer: Why are you explaining this, given that it has no bearing on this task? All you're demonstrating is how to rate limit calls to productpage, so the versions of reviews are irrelevant.

```suggestion
```

> 
> 1. Set the default version for all services to v1 so that no ratings are returned (no stars are displayed).
> 
>     {{< text bash >}}
>     $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/networking/virtual-service-all-v1.yaml@
>     {{< /text >}}

Reviewer: This is also not needed for this task.

```suggestion
```

## Rate limits

> In this task, you configure Istio to rate limit traffic to a specific path of the `productpage` service.
> Envoy supports both Global Rate Limiting and Local Rate Limiting. Envoy's Global rate
> limit integrates directly with a global gRPC rate limiting service to provide rate limiting for the whole mesh.
> Local Rate Limiting is used to rate limit per instance level. Thus, Local rate limiting can be used in conjunction with
> global rate limiting to reduce load on the global rate limit service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy supports two kinds of rate limiting: global and local. Global rate
limiting uses a global gRPC rate limiting service to provide rate limiting for the entire mesh.
Local rate limiting is used to limit the rate of request per service instance.
Local rate limiting can be used in conjunction with global rate limiting to reduce load on
the global rate limiting service.

In this task you will configure Envoy to rate limit traffic to a specific path of a service
using both global and local rate limits.
```

> ### Global Rate Limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global rate limit
```

> Envoy can be used to setup global rate limit for your mesh. More info on it can be found [here](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/global_rate_limiting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy can be used to [set up global rate limits](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/global_rate_limiting) for your mesh.
```

1. Global rate limiting in Envoy uses a gRPC API for requesting quota from a rate limiting service.

>    A [reference implementation](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit) of that API, written in Go with a Redis
>    backend, is available. To provide a custom implementation, your service must provide the Envoy API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A [reference implementation](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit) of the API, written in Go with a Redis
   backend, is used below.
```

>    In the definition of the service you also define the rate limits and the descriptor on which you want
>    to rate limit on. For example, below is the [configmap](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit#configuration)
>    defining rate limit on descriptor `PATH header` in the above reference implementation. It rate limits request to path
>    `/productpage` at 1 req/min and all other at 100 req/min.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following [configmap](https://github.com/envoyproxy/ratelimit#configuration) configures the
    reference implementation to rate limit request to the path `/productpage` at 1 req/min and all other
    requests at 100 req/min.
```

    {{<text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: ratelimit-config
    data:
      config.yaml: |
        domain: productpage-ratelimit
        descriptors:
          - key: PATH
            value: "/productpage"
            rate_limit:
              unit: minute
              requests_per_unit: 1
          - key: PATH
            rate_limit:
              unit: minute
              requests_per_unit: 100

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Apply EnvoyFilter Patch in Istio that enables global rate limit using Envoy's global rate limit filter. The below
>    EnvoyFilter is applied to `ingressgateway`. The first patch is applied to `HTTP_FILTER` wherein it inserts
>    `envoy.filters.http.ratelimit` [global envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ratelimit/v3/rate_limit.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-extensions-filters-http-ratelimit-v3-ratelimit).
>    The filter takes in the definition of external rate limit service in `rate_limit_service` field. Thus here,
>    we point it to the `rate_limit_cluster`. In the second patch we define the `rate_limit_cluster`. This adds the endpoint
>    location of the external rate limit service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply an `EnvoyFilter` to the `ingressgateway` to enable global rate limiting using Envoy's global rate limit filter.

    The first patch is applied to `HTTP_FILTER` to insert the
    `envoy.filters.http.ratelimit` [global envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ratelimit/v3/rate_limit.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-extensions-filters-http-ratelimit-v3-ratelimit) filter into the chain.
    The `rate_limit_service` field specifies the external rate limit service, `rate_limit_cluster` in this case.

    In the second patch we define the `rate_limit_cluster`, which adds the endpoint location of the external rate limit service.
```

>     {{< tip >}}
>     Make sure the rate limit service endpoint in the patch below matches the endpoint of rate limit service defined above.
>     {{< /tip >}}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                # domain can be anything! Match it to the ratelimter service config
                domain: productpage-ratelimit
                failure_mode_deny: true
                rate_limit_service:
                  grpc_service:
                    envoy_grpc:
                      cluster_name: rate_limit_cluster
                    timeout: 10s
        - applyTo: CLUSTER
          match:
            cluster:
              service: ratelimit.default.svc.cluster.local
          patch:
            operation: ADD
            # Adds the rate limit service cluster for rate limit service defined in step 1.
            value:
              name: rate_limit_cluster
              type: STRICT_DNS
              connect_timeout: 10s
              lb_policy: ROUND_ROBIN
              http2_protocol_options: {}
              load_assignment:
                cluster_name: rate_limit_cluster
                endpoints:
                - lb_endpoints:
                  - endpoint:
                      address:
                        socket_address:
                          address: ratelimit.default.svc.cluster.local
                          port_value: 8081
    EOF

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

> 1. We apply another EnvoyFilter to `ingressgateway` that defines the route configuration on which to rate limit on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply another `EnvoyFilter` to the `ingressgateway` that defines the route configuration on which to rate limit.
```

>    This adds [rate limit actions](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-config-route-v3-ratelimit)
>    for any route from virtual host named "*.80".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This adds [rate limit actions](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-msg-config-route-v3-ratelimit)
   for any route from a virtual host named `*.80`.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: EnvoyFilter
    metadata:
      name: filter-ratelimit-svc
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      workloadSelector:
        labels:
          istio: ingressgateway
      configPatches:
        - applyTo: VIRTUAL_HOST
          match:
            context: GATEWAY
            routeConfiguration:
              vhost:
                name: "*:80"
                  route:
                    action: ANY
          patch:
            operation: MERGE
            # Applies the rate limit rules.
            value:
              rate_limits:
                - actions: # any actions in here
                  - request_headers:
                      header_name: ":path"
                      descriptor_key: "PATH"
    EOF

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

> ### Local Rate Limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Local rate limit
```

> Envoy supports using [Local Rate Limit](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/local_rate_limiting#arch-overview-local-rate-limit) on connection and HTTP level. This helps applying rate limit at the instance level
> itself. In this case of rate limiting, rate limiting happens at the proxy level itself and there is no call to any other
> service or proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy supports [local rate limiting](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/other_features/local_rate_limiting#arch-overview-local-rate-limit) of L4 connections and HTTP requests.
This allows rate limit to be applied at the instance level, in the proxy itself, without calling any other service.
```

> The following EnvoyFilter enables local rate limiting for any traffic through `productpage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `EnvoyFilter` enables local rate limiting for any traffic through the `productpage` service.
```

> The patch is applied to `HTTP_FILTER` wherein it inserts `envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit` [local envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/local_rate_limit_filter#config-http-filters-local-rate-limit)
> to HTTP Connection Manager filter chain. Envoy's local rate limit filter uses [token bucket](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/local_ratelimit/v3/local_rate_limit.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-filters-http-local-ratelimit-v3-localratelimit-token-bucket)
> rate limit to decide if a request should be allowed or not. In the following example, token_bucket is configured to rate
> limit 10 requests/min. Also, all the vhosts/routes share the same token bucket.
> It also adds response header `x-local-rate-limit` if request is rate limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HTTP_FILTER` patch inserts the `envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit` [local envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/local_rate_limit_filter#config-http-filters-local-rate-limit)
into the HTTP connection manager filter chain. The local rate limit filter's [token bucket](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/local_ratelimit/v3/local_rate_limit.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-filters-http-local-ratelimit-v3-localratelimit-token-bucket)
is configured to allow 10 requests/min and an `x-local-rate-limit` response header will be
added to requests that rate limited.
```

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: don't indent this text block.

          patch:
            operation: INSERT_BEFORE
            value:
              name: envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit
              typed_config:
                "@type": type.googleapis.com/udpa.type.v1.TypedStruct
                type_url: type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.local_ratelimit.v3.LocalRateLimit
                value:
                  stat_prefix: http_local_rate_limiter
                  token_bucket:
                    max_tokens: 10
                    tokens_per_fill: 10
                    fill_interval: 60s
                  filter_enabled:
                    runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enabled
                    default_value:
                      numerator: 100
                      denominator: HUNDRED
                  filter_enforced:
                    runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enforced
                    default_value:
                      numerator: 100
                      denominator: HUNDRED
                  response_headers_to_add:
                    - append: false
                      header:
                        key: x-local-rate-limit
                        value: 'true'
    EOF

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

> In the above example, local rate limiting was applied for all vhosts/routes. But we can also just restrict it for a
> specific route. The following EnvoyFilter enables local rate limiting for any traffic through `productpage` for
> traffic through virtual host `"productpage.default.svc.cluster.local:80"`.
> The first patch is applied to `HTTP_FILTER` wherein it inserts `envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit` [local envoy filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/local_rate_limit_filter#config-http-filters-local-rate-limit)
> to HTTP Connection Manager filter chain. There is no `token_bucket` added in the config here as we are going to add it
> later in the second patch to `HTTP_ROUTE`. The second patch adds `typed_per_filter_config` for `envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit`
> local envoy filter for route whose virtual host is `"inbound|http|9080"`. `token_bucket` is
> configured to rate limit 1 requests/min. It also adds response header `x-local-rate-limit` if request is rate limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above configuration applies local rate limiting to all vhosts/routes. Alternatively, you can restrict it to a specific route.

The following `EnvoyFilter` enables local rate limiting for any traffic to port 80 of the `productpage` service.
Unlike the previous configuration, there is no `token_bucket` included in the `HTTP_FILTER` patch.
The `token_bucket` is instead defined in the second (`HTTP_ROUTE`) patch which includes a `typed_per_filter_config` for the `envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit`
local envoy filter, for routes to virtual host `inbound|http|9080`.
```

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: don't indent.

            value:
              typed_per_filter_config:
                envoy.filters.http.local_ratelimit:
                  "@type": type.googleapis.com/udpa.type.v1.TypedStruct
                  type_url: type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.filters.http.local_ratelimit.v3.LocalRateLimit
                  value:
                    stat_prefix: http_local_rate_limiter
                    token_bucket:
                      max_tokens: 10
                      tokens_per_fill: 10
                      fill_interval: 60s
                    filter_enabled:
                      runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enabled
                      default_value:
                        numerator: 100
                        denominator: HUNDRED
                    filter_enforced:
                      runtime_key: local_rate_limit_enforced
                      default_value:
                        numerator: 100
                        denominator: HUNDRED
                    response_headers_to_add:
                      - append: false
                        header:
                          key: x-local-rate-limit
                          value: 'true'
    EOF

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

## Verify the results

> ### Verify Global Rate Limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verify global rate limit
```

> Send traffic to the mesh. For the Bookinfo sample, visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send traffic to the Bookinfo sample. Visit `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage` in your web
```

browser or issue the following command:

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: don't indent.

    $ curl "http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage"

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    {{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> 
> `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.
```

> {{< tip >}}
> 
> `$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.
> 
> {{< /tip >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< tip >}}
`$GATEWAY_URL` is the value set in the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example.
{{< /tip >}}
```

> You will see the first request go through but after that every other request in a minute gets a 429 response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see the first request go through but after that, every following request within a minute will get a 429 response.
```

> ### Verify Local Rate Limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verify local rate limit
```

> At ingress gateway we have applied 1 req/min limit to `productpage` but `productpage` instances can handle in mesh traffic of
>  10 req/min based on local rate limiting.
> To confirm that send a request to it by a `curl` command from some pod, for example from `ratings`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the global rate limit at the ingress gateway limits requests to the `productpage` service at 1 req/min,
the local rate limit for `productpage` instances allows 10 req/min.
To confirm this, send internal `productpage` requests, from the `ratings` pod, using the following `curl` command:
```

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer: don't indent.

    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=ratings -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')" -c ratings -- curl productpage:9080/productpage | grep -o "<title>.*</title>"
    <title>Simple Bookstore App</title>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
